December 6 2006 8:00am-9:00am EDT 812-856-3600, PIN 001386#

0. finalize agenda (1 minute)

1. action items (1 minute)
   - finish recording draft responses in svn tickets directory (All)
   - draft response to ticket #88 (improve port i/o) (Mike)
   - read ticket #88 (improve port i/o) and Mike's response for discussion
     TODAY (All)
   - prepare proposal to replace create ports directly from input sources
     and output sinks as a replacement for readers and writers (addresses
     ticket 89) (Mike)
   - check new grammar to make sure inf.0 and nan.0 are only symbols (Will)
   - update #97 response to add timeline: 3/15 deadline for formal comments,
     4/15 deadline for editor responses, 5/15 deadline for new R6RS draft;
     mention that after that the process is up to the steering committee (Mike)
   - update #136 response to note that no top level is specified and that
     implementations who supply one (and probably most will) can provide
     a mechanism, possibly through imports, for addressing this comment (Kent)
   - prepare proposal for numeric libraries: "incremental improvement" of
     discarding exact-only, inexact-only, fixnum libraries while moving
     fixnum carry operators into the fx library and establishing a new
     bitwise library for the displaced exact-only bitwise operators
     (addresses tickets 27, 40, 52) (Will)
   - establish svn-based voting mechanism for accepting formal-comment
     responses (Kent)
   - update response to rationalize the various iteration procedures [78] (Anton)
     - flush hash-table-fold
     - add hash-table->vector
     - vector-for-each, vector-map (same interface as for-each and map)
     - call/cc can be used for premature termination
     - (vector-map p (hash-table->vector ht)) and
       (vector-for-each p (hash-table->vector ht)) can be recognized by
       optimizer if implementor feels optimization is useful
     - problem: how does hash-table->vector return both keys and values?
   - split the report into base and libraries (Mike)
   - follow up with steering committee re: front page (Kent)
   - insert readability and other guiding principles from
     status reports into draft R6RS (Mike)
   - note: tickets 1-3 are test tickets and can be ignored
   - note: tickets 135 and up came in after 2006/11/15 and can be deferred

2. scripts
   - tickets 51, 105, 106
   - concrete proposal given in response to ticket #51

3. add #!case-sensitive and #!case-insensitive syntax?
   - related to ticket 107

4. port/transcoder changes
   - ticket 88

5. should bodies be more widely permitted?
   - ticket 117
   - leave begin alone but use "implicit let" (i.e., body) instead of
     "implicit begin" in case, cond, when, unless, etc.?

6. should we flush compound library names?
   - ticket 84
   - proposal in response: keep compound names
   - may need better rationale

7. expansion process
   - tickets 61, 62

8. reduce overspecification as well as underspecification
   - ticket 87
   - need a concrete proposal

9. revisiting list operation exception-raising requirements
   - tickets 26, 42, 41, 36, 48, 49
   - need a concrete proposal

10. library phasing
   - tickets 92, 109, 110, 112, 123
   - need concrete proposal

11. rationalize hash-table/vector/list procedures
   - ticket 78
   - concrete proposal pending

12. record-type-length procedure
   - ticket 72

13. multiple versions of one library
   - ticket 130

14. enumerations
   - ticket 70

15. adjourn
