April 11 2007 8:00am-10:00am EDT 812-856-3600, PIN 001386#

0. finalize agenda (1 minute)

1. action items (1 minute)
   - record response votes (All)
   - draft concrete proposal for making conditions more like
     records---or not (ticket 210) (Mike)
   - draft concrete proposal for change in exception handling
     protocol---or not (ticket 221) (Mike)
   - redraft response for ticket 201 (Will)
   - revise (shorten) draft response for ticket 200 (Kent)
   - draft responses for ticket numbers 202, 208, 209, 210, 217, 221, 229
   - need final resolution in responses for ticket numbers 164
   - update ticket-nnn responses to reflect decisions:
     150: reject formal comment
     151: reject formal comment
     204: go with option B
     211: more when and unless into base library
     212: reject formal comment and provide rationale based on definitions
          and expressions not being interchangeable (Will)
     214: reject suggestion to replace "lookahead" with "look-ahead"
     220: map should not modify earlier return values
     223: adopt formal comment (with no commitment to allow non-integers)
     229: strings are not immutable, string-set! in a separate
          library, string-ref preserved, string-ref returns character
          (aka Unicode scalar value), no variable-length strings
          (encourage SRFIs), report should say that string-ref and
          string-set! should be O(1), add string-for-each;
          add Will's string <=> unicode conversion procedures with
          "replace" semantics (possibly mention latter in 233 response)
          mention that bytevectors can be used with record wrapper
          and srfi can replicate string functionality
          (Kent)
   - update r6rs to reflect additional decisions:
     - allow (case-lambda)
     - probably use "should" for programmer requirements that implementations
       are not required to enforce
     - change the specifications of char-alphabetic?, char-whitespace?, and
       string-titlecase to conform with Unicode 5?
       (http://lists.r6rs.org/pipermail/r6rs-discuss/2007-April/002250.html)
     - adopt Posix semantics for set-port-position! when underlying
       object is a file, with unwritten bytes having unspecified values
       rather than zero values
     - move formal semantics to a nonnormative appendix
   - deferred until after April 15
     - should we add port-length and port-has-port-length? procedures
       and corresponding arguments to custom port makers

NOTE: tickets whose responses are not yet accepted and by whom:

  135: Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton       141: Anton
  145: Anton                            148: Anton
 +150: All                              +151: Will, Mike, Anton
  152: Matthew, Mike, Anton             153: Anton
  154: Anton                            -155: Will, Anton
  156: Mike, Anton                      160: Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton
  161: Will, Kent, Matthew, Anton       -164: All
 -165: All                              166: Mike, Anton
 -170: Mike, Anton                      171: Anton
  176: Will, Kent, Matthew, Anton       179: Anton
  180: Anton                            182: Anton
  183: Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton       184: Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton
 -185: Will, Matthew, Anton             186: Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton
 *189: Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton       191: Anton
 *194: Will, Matthew                    *195: Will, Matthew
  196: Anton                            197: Anton
  198: Matthew, Mike                    *200: Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton
 *201: All                              202: All
 +204: All                              205: Mike, Anton
  206: Anton                            207: Mike, Anton
 -208: All                              -209: All
 -210: All                              +211: Kent, Matthew, Mike, Anton
 +212: All                              213: Mike, Anton
  214: All                              215: Mike, Anton
 -216: Kent, Matthew, Anton             217: All
  218: Anton                            219: Anton
 +220: Will, Kent, Matthew, Anton       -221: Will, Kent, Matthew, Anton
 -222: Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton       +223: All
 -224: Will, Kent, Matthew, Anton       225: Matthew, Mike, Anton
 -226: Will, Kent, Matthew, Mike        -227: Will, Kent, Matthew, Mike
  228: Matthew, Anton                   +229: All
  230: Matthew, Anton                   231: Matthew, Anton
  232: Matthew, Anton                   233: Matthew, Anton

   - awaiting technical decision

   + response does not yet reflect technical decision

   * questions/comments:
     154, 194, 195: problems noted by Will appear to have been fixed
     200: Kent is to shorten this response
     201: Will is to redraft this response
     189: Anton would like help with this response

2. end game
   - we have four days left to publish responses
   - same process as last time?
   - volunteer to clean up tickets
   - meetings before and after April 15

3. eliminate library export immutability loophole? (5 minutes)
   - ticket 208
   - motion 1: include implicit only-once wrapper around rhs of each
     library definition
     - options: should or must raise exception?
   - motion 2: include implicit only-once wrapper around rhs of each
     definition, letrec, and letrec* rhs
     - options: should or must raise exception?

4. keep the other little library: (r6rs case-lambda)? (5 minutes)
   - we moved when-unless into (r6rs base), what about case-lambda? 

5. Export bindings for various literals? (10 minutes)
   - ticket 164
   - literals that can appear where non-literals are legitimate:
     - syntax-rules underscore (_), ellipses (...)
     - cond else
     - quasiquote unquote, unquote-splicing
     - quasisyntax unsyntax, unsyntax-splicing
     - others?
   - literals that can appear only where literals are legitimate:
     - case else
     - define-record-type fields, mutable, etc.
     - others?
   - tabled last week when Matthew dropped out

6. change formal semantics? (5 minutes)
   - tickets 226 (drop library toplevel), 227 (drop define and begin^f)

7. should formal semantics contain "complicating optimizations"
   - ticket 222

8. eq? and eqv? should apply to all standardized objects (5 minutes)
   - ticket 155

9. asymmetry between fold-left and fold-right (5 minutes)
   - ticket 170

10. rename named let? (5 minutes)
   - ticket 165

11. The mess around line endings (eol-style and line endings
    completely unspecified) (5 minutes)
   - ticket 185

12. Syntactic datums and datum values (5 minutes)
   - ticket 209

13. get-bytevector-some may be difficult to implement (5 minutes)
   - ticket 224

14. Raising of exceptions should not be ambiguous or confusing (5 minutes)
   - ticket 176

15. adjourn
