September 5 2006 8:00am-10:00am EDT 812-856-3600, PIN 001386#

0. finalize agenda (1 minute)

1. action items from 8/29/2006 (5 minutes)
   - publish the not-for-public-release r6rs

2. termination language for identifiers, characters, etc. (5 minutes)
   - are termination requirements the same for all of these?
   - who will fix the language?

3. export "for" syntax" (10 minutes)
   - there are different interpretations about the semantics and
     disagreement about the proper interpretation mong current
     designers/implementors (Flatt, Dybvig, van Tonder, Ghuloum)
   - the export "for" syntax turns out also to be essentially redundant
   - recommendation: flush export "for" syntax and state that
     exported bindings within a library are exported for run, and
     reexported identifiers are exported into their import phases

4. perceived r6rs size (10 minutes)
   - should we make use of headers, page breaks, Part numbers, etc. to
     make clear distinction between base and libraries?
   - should we add a rationale for the size and explain that the base
     is approximately the size of r5rs?
   - should we mention that r6rs is the first Scheme standard that a
     reasonable Scheme implementor might choose *not* to extend?

5. six-month public comment process (15 minutes)
   - expectations for editor participation
   - tracking public comments
   - tracking our own deliberations
   - trac wiki?

6. publishing reference implementations
   - where and when

7. publishing discussion archives
   - where and when

8. adjourn
