November 27 2006 8:00am-9:00am EDT 812-856-3600, PIN 001386#

0. finalize agenda (1 minute)

1. action items (5 minutes)
   - split the report into base and libraries (Mike)
   - reformat front page to reflect editor/author roles (Mike)
   - email steering committee re: front page (Kent)
   - draft responses by Wednesday November 29 (All)
   - email editors re: formal comment response process (Kent)
     (actually done in Will's 11/20 meeting notes)
   - draft "readability principle" for R6RS (Will)
   - insert readability and other guiding principles from
     status reports into draft R6RS (Mike)

2. closed tickets (5 minutes)
   - suggest we vote on first batch of closed tickets on Wednesday
     - technical vote; vote on actual response comes when response has
       been written
   - in the meantime, look for any that should not be closed
   - ticket numbers:  4 13 15 16 19 20 21 23 24 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 37 43
     44 50 53 54 55 56 74 85 93 101 102 103 116 119 121 125 133

3. done, probably uncontroversial (critical/yellow) tickets (5 minutes)
   - suggest we vote on these Wednesday
     - technical vote; vote on actual response comes when response has
       been written
   - in the meantime, change priority of any you think are controversial,
     adding a note to explain why
   - ticket numbers:  5 8 10 11 12 14 22 60 67 94 98 112 120 129 134

4. we have to discuss it, first (minor/cyan) tickets (5 minutes)
   - suggest we take a straw poll on these Wednesday
   - in the meantime, add your own notes or email group
   - ticket numbers:  7 17 18 25 26 28 38 39 40 41 42 49 51 57 58 59 63 64
     65 66 70 72 76 79 80 81 82 90 92 95 96 99 100 104 105 108 109 110 115
     118 122 124 126 127 131 132

5. suggested response/action, but needs discussion (major/white) tickets (5 minutes)
   - suggest we take a straw poll on these Wednesday
   - in the meantime, add your own notes or email group
   - ticket numbers:  6 27 36 45 46 47 52 61 62 68 69 71 73 75 77 78 84 86
     87 88 89 97 106 107 111 113 114 117 123 128 130

6. "don't know" but should should be easy (blocker/red) tickets (5 minutes)
   - discuss these now
   - tickets:
     - 9 (backslash-linefeed)

7. I'm stumped for the moment (trivial/blue) tickets (10 minutes)
   - discuss these now
   - tickets (may evaporate by Wednesday):
     - 48 (Slight defect in plausible alist description)
     - 83 (Add a multi-file library example)
     - 91 (inf.0 and nan.0 should remain symbols)

8. Discussion of controversial issues (remaining time)
   - ground rules
   - nomination for items to discuss first (some possibilties below, grouped)
   - #26: Map and for-each should work even if lists are of unequal length
     #25 "forall" and "exists" should use SRFI-1 equivalents
     #42 Requirement to detect circular lists
     #41 Plausible lists presentation defect
     #36 Ambiguous call/cc-behaviour of list operations
     #45 last-element behavior of for-each
     #48 Slight defect in plausible alist description
     #49 Higher-order procedures should not interfere with exceptions
     #87 Reduce over-specification as well as under-specification
     #100 forall should be for-all for consistency with for-each
     #130 Multiple versions of one library should be linkable
   - #52: Exact-Integer and Real (and Complex) are more useful
          distinctions than Exact and Inexact; combine with:
     #40: Exactness is orthogonal to type
   - #61: Expansion process violates lexical scoping; combine with
     #62: Lexical scoping violation for internal define-syntax.
   - #84: Eliminate compound library names
   - #87: Reduce over-specification as well as under-specification
   - #89: Leave readers and writers out of the report
   - #106: #! /usr/bin/env is not portable.  It's Unix-specific.
     #105: Scheme is not a scripting language
   - #107: Scheme should not be changed to be case sensitive
   - #123: Replacing the import's "for" syntax with implicit phasing
     #92: Phase semantics
     #109: identifier-syntax is not a derived form
     #110: Remove double phase semantics
   - #117: Bodies should be more widely permitted
   - #126: local imports
   - #128: Declarations do not belong in the report; combine with
     #64: Declarations don't seem to be designed for real-world needs
     #77: Querying Declaration Quality Priorities
   - #130: Multiple versions of one library should be linkable

9. adjourn
