August 17 2006 8:00am-10:00am EDT 812-856-3600
All present by about 8:02 am EST

0. finalize agenda (1 minute)

1. action items from 8/8/2006 (5 minutes)
   - write up summary of script options (Anton)
        done
   - propose change to library semantics (Will)
        done
   - express opinions on peek-char, write-char, etc., naming options (All)
        done
   - note: reserve last week of August for proofreading

2. Report status (5 minutes)
   - items ready for review
     <item>                    <editor>   <to be completed by>   <done?>
     unicode                   Matthew    Aug. 03                done.
     exceptions & conditions   Matthew    Aug. 03
     quasiquote                Kent       Aug. 08                done.
     letrec*                   Kent       Aug. 08                done.
     let-values & let*-values  Kent       Aug. 08                done.
     records                   Kent       Aug. 15
     enumerations              Will       Jul. 12                done.
     bytes                     Will       Aug. 03                done.
     equal?                    Will       Aug. 01                done.
     list-library              Anton      Aug. 11 (21)
     case-lambda               Anton      Aug. 11 (21)
     when & unless             Anton      Aug. 08                done.
     core/library split        Anton      Aug. 11 (21)
     arithmetic                Will       Aug. 22
     set-car!, set-cdr!        Anton      Aug. ?? (21)
     condition-type details    Anton      Aug. ?? (21)
     dynamic-wind              Kent       Aug. 15                done.
   - items not ready for review
     syntax (read-syntax, syntactic forms)
        now ready to be reviewed
        Matthew will review (Aug 20)
     eval
     I/O
     hash tables
        almost ready to be reviewed
     safe/unsafe mode
        probably ready to look at
        issue: do we need an additional section?
        Kent volunteers
     syntax-case
     library system
     scripts
     r5rs compatibility library
     operational semantics
        in progress

3. R6RS header material (5 minutes)

4. future meetings (5 minutes)
    8am EST Tuesday next two weeks
    may add additional conference call(s)

5. script syntax (10 minutes)
   (see https://r6rs.scheming.org/node/346)
    1.  script header
        script form (script lib-name entry-name) library-form
    2.  script header
        import form
        library body
    3.  script header
        script form as in 1, except library body is inside script form
    Straw poll:
        Kent: 2, 1, 3
        Matthew: 2, 1, 3
        Mike: 3, 1, 2
        Will: 2 (with interleaving), 1, 3
        Anton: 2, 3, 1

6. naming of condition predicates and accessors (5 minutes)
    to be discussed via email
    re-adding a condition type for syntax violations
        no objections

7. libraries (15 minutes)
   - phasing again (see https://r6rs.scheming.org/node/102#comment-1701)
        revote via email
   - Will's proposed change to library semantics
     ---same binding may be imported from two libraries
     (see https://r6rs.scheming.org/node/352)
        no objections

8. I/O (15 minutes)
    write-char, peek-char
    prefixes:
        display/read
        put/get
        output/input
        out/in
        push/pull
    Will moved the new procedures begin with display-
        and read-.  Kent seconded.
    Mike prefers put/get, as does Anton.
    Yes: Kent, Will
    No: Anton, Mike
    Abstain: Matthew
    Mike moved to adopt either the display/read or put/get
        convention.  Kent seconded.
    Yes: Will, Kent, Mike, Matthew, Anton
    No: 
    Abstain: 
    Vote between two options:
    display/read: Kent
    put/get: Matthew, Mike, Anton
    abstain: Will
    put/get it is.
    Will moved to keep peek-char as in R5RS, and to name
        the new one lookahead-char.  Mike seconded.
    Yes: Will, Kent, Matthew, Mike, Anton
    Will moved that read and write retain their names
        in the simple-io library, with R5RS argument
        order, and that put-datum and get-datum be added
        in some library with the mandatory port first.
        Mike seconded.
    Yes: Will, Kent, Mike, Matthew, Anton
    No: 
    Open i/o issues:
        side effect to change transcoder
        open/read+write

#vu8(...) syntax proposed for bytes objects
    no objections

core/library split
    Kent wants call/cc and named let in r6rs-base,
        but otherwise agrees with Will's suggested
        list.
    

9. adjourned about 10:07am EST
