Conference call 12:48pm 22 Feb 2006.

0. finalize agenda (1 minute)
done

1. action items from 1/15/2006 (5 minutes)
   - update draft status report (Kent)
   - post note re: van Tonder syntax-case differences (Matthew)
   - read exception, byte-vector, and I/O SRFIs (Anton, Kent, Matthew, Will)
   - draft hash-table proposal (Anton, Will)
   - draft syntax-case SRFI (Kent)
all of these continued to another time

2. status report discussion (5 minutes)
   - omit principles?
        concerns expressed about second and fourth of the R6RS principles
   - any more issues?
        no
   - send to steering committee?
        today or tomorrow

3. form of semantics in r6rs (3 minutes)
    two major options:
        update the R5RS denotational semantics
            dynamic-wind, dynamic environment
        ask Robby Findler and Jacob Matthews to provide one
    general sentiment favors small-step operational semantics
    Anton has an executable version of the denotational semantics
    action item: Mike will contact Findler and Matthews

4. discussion
   - guiding principles
        agreement on R5RS principles
        concerns about wording of R6RS principle 2
        reorder by moving principle 3 (libraries) to top
   - specific requirements
        will systems have to support all Unicode characters?
            not yet decided
        we will specify conditions thrown by standard procedures,
            but that will not be listed as a requirement

next week meet again
    action item: issues paper on safe/unsafe mode

5. adjourn
about 12:41pm
