2:03pm 9 February 2006
Conference call involving:
Kent, Will, Matthew, Mike, Anton

0. finalize agenda (1 minute)
approved agenda

1. elect chair and project editor (5 minutes)
chair and project editor elected unanimously:
Kent and Mike, respectively

2. discuss and vote: 5 editors or more? (5 minutes)
stay with five editors?
yes

3. proposal (dybvig): comprehensive status report (5 minutes)
     - proposal:
       - chair to prepare new status report (with help as needed)
       - comprehensive versus incremental
       - "where we stand" versus "what we've done"
         - decisions made
         - priorities
         - work in progress
         - projected timelines
       - intended as living document, updated regularly
     - action items: TDB
approved by acclamation

4. discuss goals and timelines (10 minutes)
get it done by end of 2006
alpha draft (for us): by mid-May/June
beta draft (for steering committee): by September 1
final draft (for community): up to steering committee

5. discuss intragroup communication vehicles (10 minutes)
Anton volunteered to set up mailing list/bulletin board/email/twiki.
Transfer archives from Montreal to new setup.
Probably not bother with wiki for now.
Mike will set up subversion repository.

At least three of us (Mike, Anton, Matthew) will be
at Dagstuhl 1-5 May.

Telephone conference calls on Wednesday at 12:45pm EST.

6. brief status reports (10-20 minutes)
     - modules (Flatt)
        SRFI has generated much discussion
        two big issues:
            clarifying phases
                (compile-time modules that import at compile time)
            how names are written, how you refer to other modules
                (coding as strings is controversial)
            syntax of import and export, languages
            how much for R6RS?
                R6RS language only, implicitly or explicitly
     - records (Sperber)
        issues still remain
            generativity still unspecified
            complaints about sealed feature, lacks rationale
        separate maker has been received positively, but not
            much reaction; people view it as simplification
     - unicode (Flatt)
        no action since summer
        open issues:
            what normalization (C, combines as much as possible)
            Unicode scalar value (21-bit number) still controversial
            byte encodings go in i/o section
     - arithmetic (Clinger)
        semantics of safe/unsafe mode
            interacts with exceptions
            major issue for all of R6RS, not just arithmetic
        how much in modules vs base language?
            fixnum operations should be in module, not base
            flonum operations probably should be in module also
            inexact-only, exact-only operations not clear
        require full tower
        real? means exact zero imaginary part
deferred to next week:
     - exceptions (Sperber)
     - I/O (Sperber)
     - macros (Dybvig)
     - ...

7.
Conference call next Wednesday at 12:45pm.

8.  Adjourned approximately 2:52pm.

Will
