Formal comment #73 (simplification)

Record nongenerative UID should be library name where record is defined
Reported by:	Aubrey Jaffer

Component:	records
Version:	5.91

Page 66 of R5.91RS suggests the use of "UUID namespace" for
nongenerative UIDs, presumably to avoid name conflicts with other
record-types of the same name:

Note: Users are encouraged to use symbol names constructed using the
UUID namespace (for example, using the record-type name as a prefix)
for the uid argument.

RFC-4122 "Universally Unique IDentifier"s are cryptic to humans. To
interchange records between modules, the 36-digit hexadecimal number
must be extracted from one and pasted into the source of the others.

Were there no other context where Scheme programs needed to resolve
external resources, this might be good enough. But R6.91RS libraries
must be resolved, libraries which already must contain the record
definitions!

I propose that a UID argument be either #f or a library-name; and that
two record definitions be identified with each other only when their
record-names and UIDs match.

Going one step further, I propose that generative record-types be
removed, and that a #f UID default to the library-name in which this
record definition appears. If modules have unique names, then record
definitions with a #f UID will not conflict with each other; and
record definitions with a #f UID will effectively export themselves
for sharing.

RESPONSE:

Nongenerative UIDs are in a sense very unmodular: The addition of a
new nongenerative record-type definition can cause a program that
worked without it to break, if the UIDs of the record-type definitions
match.  Hence, a namespace for the UIDs is needed that avoids
collisions as much as possible.  Allowing #f would make it much more
likely that such collisions occur.

Except for the #f part, the proposal of the formal comment would also
minimize collisions.  Consequently, we will adopt this part of the
formal comment.

