Ticket #78 (enhancement)
Rationalize the various iteration procedures
Status: new	Reported by:	Michael Lenaghan	Assigned to:	anton
Priority:	major	Milestone:	r6rs
Component:	other	Version:	5.91
Keywords:		Cc:	

Component: Hash Tables, Lists, Vectors 

Section: 

9.16 Vectors (pg 47); 12 List Utilities (pg 64); 18.2 Hash Table
Procedures (pg 117); 23.3.2 List Utilities (pg 125)

Description

R6RS specifies several list iteration procedures, one hash table
iteration procedure, and no vector iteration procedures.

The parameter list for list folding is somewhat different than that
for hash table folding; the init parameter is in a different spot. (If
a fold were offered for vectors the init would be in the same spot as
the list fold utilities since a vector fold could plausibly accept
more than one vector, so hash tables should follow the list model.)

        (fold-left kons nil list1 list2 . . . listn)
        (fold-right kons nil list1 list2 . . . listn)

        (hash-table-fold proc hash-table init)

Why is folding the only iteration offered for hash tables? Chez Scheme
and PLT Scheme both offer hash table map and "each" procedures. Though
they could both be written in terms of hash-table-fold, R6RS follows a
funny line, dramatically expanding the number of list utilities while
at the same time keeping a minimal set of operations for other
types--more or less. For example, R6RS does provide hash-table-keys
and hash-table-values, which (as shown in the spec) could also be
written in terms of hash-table-fold but are nevertheless provided.

Why do folds not allow for premature termination? Oleg argues at
http://okmij.org/ftp/Computation/Continuations.html#enumerator-stream
that the most general purpose iterator is a left fold that allows for
premature termination. None of the fold procedures in R6RS allow for
premature termination without the use of exceptions or
continuations. Imagine, for example, writing a procedure to find a
value (rather than a key) in a hash table; with R6RS the only option
is hash-table-fold, and the only way to prematurely exit the fold is
to escape the procedure.

Why is no iteration of any kind offered for vectors? Again, while R6RS
is dramatically expanding the list utilities it is leaving a rather
minimal set for nearly all other types. Vectors would benefit from
pre-defined iterators, and some compilers would undoubtedly be able to
optimize such iterators.

Recommendations: 

Decide whether the R6RS philosophy is to provide the minimal set of
procedures, or a reasonable set.

If the philosophy is to provide a minimal set, arguably left fold
*with premature termination* is more primitive (and more useful) than
the fold procedures provided.

If the philosophy is to provide a reasonable set, some thought should
be given to what that set should be, and that set should be
implemented for all types where it makes sense. A reasonable set might
be fold with premature termination, fold without premature termination
(for convenience), map, and for-each.

In any event, parameter lists for similar iterators of different types
shouldn't differ needlessly.


RESPONSE:

(Summarized, will be fleshed out on Tue 12 Dec.  In particular, a response to the issue of the R6RS philosophy will be provided, by reference to the R6RS guiding principles.)

* The hash-table-fold procedure will be dropped.

* vector-for-each and vector-map procedures will be added, with the same interface as for-each and map.

* The hash-table-keys and hash-table-values procedures will be changed to return a vector of keys and of values  respectively.  Rationale: Returning of vectors can be implemented and used efficiently, making these procedures useful as a building block for other procedures.  hash-table-keys is useful for supporting mutating traversals of a hash table.  hash-table-values is useful in a variety of scenarios.

* A hash-table->vector procedure will be added, which returns a vector of key/value pairs.  This satisfies the requirement for an atomic operation which returns both keys and values, while remaining consistent with the -keys and -values procedures.  Returning key/value pairs allows for convenient conversion to an alist.  [ISSUE: this procedure could return two vectors instead.]

* call/cc can be used for premature termination

* (vector-map p (hash-table->vector ht)) and (vector-for-each p (hash-table->vector ht)) can be recognized by optimizer if implementor feels optimization is useful. [ISSUE: extend this to all three hash table to vector conversion procedures?]
