Ticket #92 (defect)

Phase semantics
Status: new	Reported by:	Andre van Tonder	Assigned to:	mflatt
Priority:	minor	Milestone:	r6rs
Component:	libraries	Version:	5.91
Keywords:		Cc:	

Summary: 

Slight refinement in specification of phase semantics for better
portability.

Description: 

At the beginning of section 6.2, the sentence

"An exception may be raised, however, if a binding is used out of its
declared phase(s)"

should preferably be changed to

"An exception [must] be raised, however, if a binding is used out of
its declared phase(s)"

As far as I am aware, all three existing reference implementations do
this, so it should be no problem. Leaving it unspecified can only
hinder portability.

On page 24, the sub-paragraph: 

"... Similarly, an implementation is allowed to distinguish
invocations of a library across different phases or to treat an
invocation at any phase as an invocation at all phases. An
implementation is further allowed to start each expansion of a library
form by removing all library bindings above phase 0. Thus, a portable
library's meaning must not depend on whether the invocations are
distinguished or preserved across phases or library expansions."

should preferably be 

"... Similarly, an implementation is allowed to distinguish
invocations of a library across different phases or to treat an
invocation at any phase as an invocation at all phases. [no changes]

[changed position of this to avoid confusion:] Thus, a portable
library's meaning must not depend on whether the invocations are
distinguished or preserved across phases or library expansions.

An implementation is further [required] to start each expansion of a
library form by removing all library bindings above phase 0."

Again, as far as I am aware, all three existing reference
implementations do this, so again it should be no problem. Leaving it
unspecified can only hinder portability.

Furthermore, it may be helpful to point out that in the following:

"An implementation is allowed to distinguish visits of a library
across different phases or to treat a visit at any phase as a visit at
all phases"

the first kind of implementation may (or perhaps must?) use a separate
space of bindings for each phase, whereas in the second case the
bindings are shared between phases, but are only available to be used
in the phases stated in the "for ---" specifier, and that portable
libraries should not rely on either semantics. This can be a highly
confusing issue for the initiated and uninitiated alike, and a little
more explanation could be very useful.

DRAFT RESPONSE

The current specification reflects a compromise among different
possible models of libraries and syntax. In particular, in a system
without separate instances of libraries in different phases, and where
the phase shift of a variable or keyword is determined by context,
declared levels are meaningless. Therefore, the R6RS will continue to
allow implementations to ignore declared levels.
