Formal comment #220 (defect)

Map returning twice
Reported by: 	Andre van Tonder
Version: 	5.92

Component : Higher order list procedures

Sections : 9.11 (base document), 3 (standard libraries)

Summary

MAP (and possibly other higher-order procedures) should return a new
list not only the first time, but /every subsequent/ time, if it
returns more than once. Not doing so may cause inconsistent states in
algorithms that use backtracking.

Discussion

Consistent behaviour of MAP (and other higher order procedures that
construct new lists) in cases where these return more than once, is
important in algorithms that use backtracking.

For this to work correctly, MAP should allocate new list structure not
only the first time, but /every subsequent/ time it returns. Certain
imperative implementations of MAP do not allocate new structure on
subsequent returns, and may lead to inconsistent states in
backtracking algorithms.

Here is an example:

(let ((resume #f)
       (results '()))
   (set! results
         (cons (map (lambda (x)
                      (call/cc (lambda (k)
                                 (unless resume (set! resume k))
                                 0)))
                    '(#f #f))
               results ))
   (display results)(newline)
   (if resume
       (let ((resume* resume))
         (set! resume #f)
         (resume* 1))))

With a careful implementation of MAP, a new list is returned every
time, so that the displayed results are

   ((0 0))
   ((1 0) (0 0))
   ((1 1) (1 0) (0 0))

Some imperative implementations of MAP do not return a new list every
time, so that an inconsistent result such as

   ((0 0))
   ((1 0) (0 0))
   ((1 1) (1 1) (0 0))

may be returned (here the first two lists are the same - the (1 0) of
the second step has been SET-CDR!-ed). Here is one such, otherwise
reasonable-looking, implementation:

;; Imperative implementation that only returns
;; a new list the first time it returns:

(define (map f lst)
   (if (null? lst)
       '()
       (let ((result (list (f (car lst)))))
         (let loop ((pair result)
                    (tail (cdr lst)))
           (if (pair? tail)
               (let ((pair* (list (f (car tail)))))
                 (set-cdr! pair pair*)
                 (loop pair*
                       (cdr tail))))
           result))))

(While this problem was pointed out in a prior formal comment, that
comment was not well formulated, and the formal response to that
comment did not really address this particular issue.)

Recommendation

Require that MAP (and other higher order preocedures that construct
lists) return a new list every time in cases where it may return more
than once.


RESPONSE:

The next revision of the report will restrict implementations of `map'
as follows: If multiple returns occur, `map' must not mutate return
values of earlier returns.
